# splatr - first draft
The original first draft of Splatr from early 2019. This project was my first, end-to-end, build of a web-app with a database backend and a full frontend. Splatr was a platform for artists to list their commission offerings and for fans to support their favorite artists. Operating on with a node.js/Express server, MongoDB database, and a VanillaJS front-end, Splatr handled the full lifecycle of the artist commission process.

## Stack
* Express.js v4 - App server
* MongoDB - Document database
* EJS - Front-end conditional rendering
* Passport - Authentication middleware

## Integrations
Splatr integrated several external APIs and public packages:
* **External Integrations**
  * Algolia - Search
  * Mailjet - Email
  * Microsoft Azure - File storage 
  * Stripe - Payments
  * Unsplash - Background images
* **Packages**
  * Cropper.js - Image cropping
  * Jimp - Image resizing & watermarking
  * Streamifier - Multi-part, streaming uploads
 
## Lessons Learned
Lots of headaches, lessons, and fun throughout the process, but as it was my first end-to-end project, there were plenty of things that I could've done better:
* User input sanitization - Looking back, I really didn't do any type-matching or value-checking on user inputs.
* Interface standardization - Was a bit all-over-the-place with the styling of components and my CSS was anything but concise.
* Simplification - Some parts of the project are far more complicated than required or have too many options that would be offputting to many users. Others are too simple and don't handle verifications or include fairly obvious errors.
* User experience streamlining - The dashboard was overwhelming and the onboarding flow was long, overly complicated, and not focused on UX.
* Project structure/organization - The code structure for Splatr is a bit all over the place - some pieces are split into modules, others are written in place. Lots of clunky and hard-to-read node code. Also, mega-files - too many of the project files should be broken into more legible chunks to prevent the horrific sprawl that this has.
* Non-descriptive error messages - Generally, the errors generated by the server didn't include any information or logging.
* Non-standard phrasing/usage - In several places, the server assigns arbitrary names to variables, including many non-standard English phrases.
* No code comments - Looking back several years after I "completed" the project, there are many places where I have no idea what I was trying to accomplish because there are no comments...
* Authorization - Most of the authorization actions relied on the integrity of the document in the database without any logic checking or further conditions.
* A11Y - The front-end code is a hodge-podge of different tutorials, ideas, workarounds, and inexperience. This led to a horrible experience for any non-visual user.

## Things I'd do differently
Kinda riffing off the "lessons learned", but first up would be switch to TypeScript and ES6+ because a lot of the sprawl and sanitization issues could be addressed with new features. Then I'd massively scale back what it was trying to do. Originally, I was writing Splatr to be an everything for everyone, which led to either immense amounts of user strain or hastily crafted back-end logic.

On the front-end, my first goal would be to create a component library instead of individual files and entries for a lot of the CSS. There's also a huge number of overwrites and z-index issues because I just took the sledgehammer approach instead of looking at why components were rendering in the places they were. On the HTML side - first step would be to end the `<div>` soup. Holy batman are there a lot of `<div>`s. Part of me wants to fire up a screenreader and see what unholy screams my computer makes.
  
